README.md, before:

# Ralph

Autonomous AI coding loop. Reads tasks from `TODO.md`, dispatches an AI agent
to implement them one by one, commits, pushes, and loops.

## How it works

```
tasks/TODO.md ──► ralph picks first open task
                      │
                      ▼
                  codex agent (full-auto)
                  implements, tests, audits
                      │
                      ▼
                  git commit + push
                      │
                      ▼
                  sleep, then loop ◄──┐
                      │               │
                      └───────────────┘
```

Each iteration:
1. Ralph reads `tasks/TODO.md` in your project repo
2. Picks the first task not marked as DONE
3. Dispatches a [Codex](https://github.com/openai/codex) agent with full-auto permissions
4. Agent implements the task end-to-end, runs tests, commits and pushes
5. Ralph detects completion, waits, then starts next iteration
6. No tasks left? Ralph idles and polls periodically

## Requirements

- [Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) in your `PATH`
- A git repository
- Bash 4+

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/example/ralph.git
ln -s "$(cd ralph && pwd)/ralph" ~/bin/ralph
```

Or just add the ralph directory to your `PATH`.

### Claude Code skill (optional)

Ralph comes with a `todo` skill for [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/claude-code)
that helps you write well-structured tasks. To install:

```bash
cp -r ralph/skills/todo ~/.claude/skills/todo
```

Then in Claude Code, use `/todo` followed by a task description. The skill
analyzes your codebase and writes a detailed implementation spec directly into
`tasks/TODO.md` — ready for Ralph to pick up.

## Usage

```bash
cd your-project-repo
ralph run              # start the loop
ralph stop             # toggle stop file (set/remove tasks/agent.stop)
ralph restart <pid>    # reload a running process
ralph help             # show help
```

## Configuration

All configuration is via environment variables:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `RALPH_LANG` | `pl` | Language: `pl`, `en` |
| `RALPH_MODE` | `loop` | Mode: `loop` (keep going), `single` (one task then stop) |
| `MODEL` | `gpt-5.3-codex` | AI model name passed to codex |
| `REASONING` | `high` | Model reasoning effort |
| `SLEEP_SECONDS` | `10` | Pause between runs (seconds) |
| `IDLE_SLEEP_SECONDS` | `15` | Pause when no tasks found |
| `ERROR_SLEEP_SECONDS` | `300` | Pause after a failed run |
| `RALPH_HOME` | *(auto-detected)* | Ralph installation directory |
| `RALPH_VERBOSE` | `0` | Set to `1` to show agent output live |
| `BASE_PROMPT_FILE` | `prompts/{lang}.md` | Override agent prompt file |

Example:

```bash
RALPH_LANG=en MODEL=o3 ralph run
```

## File structure

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `ralph` | Main script — loop, PID management, logging |
| `prompts/pl.md` | Agent prompt (Polish) |
| `prompts/en.md` | Agent prompt (English) |
| `archive_todo.sh` | Utility: archive completed sections from TODO.md |
| `skills/todo/SKILL.md` | Claude Code skill for writing structured tasks |

## TODO.md format

Ralph expects `tasks/TODO.md` (created automatically if missing) with numbered sections:

```markdown
# TODO

## 1. Add user authentication
Implement login/logout with session tokens.

## 2. Fix pagination bug
The /api/items endpoint returns wrong page count.
```

When the agent completes a task, it marks the section as DONE:

```markdown
## ~~1. Add user authentication~~ DONE (2026-02-12 14:30:00)
```

DONE sections are automatically moved to `tasks/TODO_ARCHIVE.md` at the start
of each run.

### Subsections

Tasks can have lettered subsections. Ralph treats them as a single unit:

```markdown
## 3. Refactor database layer
### 3a. Extract connection pool
### 3b. Add retry logic
### 3c. Update tests
```

All open letters are completed in one session before marking section 3 as DONE.

## Runtime files

Ralph creates these in your project repo (add `tasks/` to `.gitignore`):

```
tasks/
  TODO.md              # task list
  DONE.md              # completion log
  TODO_ARCHIVE.md      # archived DONE sections
  agent.stop           # touch to stop the loop
  agent.restart        # used by ralph restart
  logs/
    ralph.pid          # PID lock file
    latest -> runs/... # symlink to latest run
    runs/
      20260212-143000-1/
        stdout.log     # agent output
        prompt.txt     # prompt sent to agent
        meta.txt       # run metadata
```

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Tune run performance defaults and session policies

README.md, after:

# Ralph

Autonomous AI coding loop. Reads tasks from `TODO.md`, dispatches an AI agent
to implement them one by one, commits, and loops. Ralph syncs with remote at
the session level.

## How it works

```
tasks/TODO.md ──► ralph picks first open task
                      │
                      ▼
                  codex agent (full-auto)
                  implements, tests, audits
                      │
                      ▼
                  git commit
                      │
                      ▼
                  sleep, then loop ◄──┐
                      │               │
                      └───────────────┘
```

Each iteration:
1. Ralph reads `tasks/TODO.md` in your project repo
2. Picks the first task not marked as DONE
3. Dispatches a [Codex](https://github.com/openai/codex) agent with full-auto permissions
4. Agent implements the task end-to-end, runs tests, and commits
5. Ralph detects completion, waits, then starts next iteration
6. No tasks left? Ralph pushes pending commits, then idles and polls periodically

## Requirements

- [Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) in your `PATH`
- A git repository
- Bash 4+

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/example/ralph.git
ln -s "$(cd ralph && pwd)/ralph" ~/bin/ralph
```

Or just add the ralph directory to your `PATH`.

### Claude Code skill (optional)

Ralph comes with a `todo` skill for [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/claude-code)
that helps you write well-structured tasks. To install:

```bash
cp -r ralph/skills/todo ~/.claude/skills/todo
```

Then in Claude Code, use `/todo` followed by a task description. The skill
analyzes your codebase and writes a detailed implementation spec directly into
`tasks/TODO.md` — ready for Ralph to pick up.

## Usage

```bash
cd your-project-repo
ralph run              # start the loop
ralph stop             # toggle stop file (set/remove tasks/agent.stop)
ralph restart <pid>    # reload a running process
ralph help             # show help
```

## Configuration

All configuration is via environment variables:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `RALPH_LANG` | `pl` | Language: `pl`, `en` |
| `RALPH_MODE` | `loop` | Mode: `loop` (keep going), `single` (one task then stop) |
| `MODEL` | `gpt-5.3-codex` | AI model name passed to codex |
| `REASONING` | `medium` | Model reasoning effort |
| `SLEEP_SECONDS` | `10` | Pause between runs (seconds) |
| `IDLE_SLEEP_SECONDS` | `15` | Pause when no tasks found |
| `ERROR_SLEEP_SECONDS` | `300` | Pause after a failed run |
| `RALPH_HOME` | *(auto-detected)* | Ralph installation directory |
| `RALPH_VERBOSE` | `0` | Set to `1` to show agent output live |
| `RALPH_INLINE_CLAUDE` | `0` | Set to `1` to inline full `CLAUDE.md` files into each prompt |
| `RALPH_WT_MAX_LINES` | `40` | Max `git status --short` lines appended to each prompt |
| `RALPH_GIT_SYNC_ON_START` | `1` | Set to `0` to skip one-time `git pull --rebase` at session start |
| `RALPH_GIT_PUSH_ON_IDLE` | `1` | Set to `0` to disable auto-push of pending commits on idle/stop |
| `BASE_PROMPT_FILE` | `prompts/{lang}.md` | Override agent prompt file |

Example:

```bash
RALPH_LANG=en MODEL=o3 ralph run
```

## File structure

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `ralph` | Main script — loop, PID management, logging |
| `prompts/pl.md` | Agent prompt (Polish) |
| `prompts/en.md` | Agent prompt (English) |
| `archive_todo.sh` | Utility: archive completed sections from TODO.md |
| `skills/todo/SKILL.md` | Claude Code skill for writing structured tasks |

## TODO.md format

Ralph expects `tasks/TODO.md` (created automatically if missing) with numbered sections:

```markdown
# TODO

## 1. Add user authentication
Implement login/logout with session tokens.

## 2. Fix pagination bug
The /api/items endpoint returns wrong page count.
```

When the agent completes a task, it marks the section as DONE:

```markdown
## ~~1. Add user authentication~~ DONE (2026-02-12 14:30:00)
```

DONE sections are automatically moved to `tasks/TODO_ARCHIVE.md` at the start
of each run.

### Subsections

Tasks can have lettered subsections. Ralph treats them as a single unit:

```markdown
## 3. Refactor database layer
### 3a. Extract connection pool
### 3b. Add retry logic
### 3c. Update tests
```

All open letters are completed in one session before marking section 3 as DONE.

## Runtime files

Ralph creates these in your project repo (add `tasks/` to `.gitignore`):

```
tasks/
  TODO.md              # task list
  DONE.md              # completion log
  TODO_ARCHIVE.md      # archived DONE sections
  agent.stop           # touch to stop the loop
  agent.restart        # used by ralph restart
  logs/
    ralph.pid          # PID lock file
    latest -> runs/... # symlink to latest run
    runs/
      20260212-143000-1/
        stdout.log     # agent output
        prompt.txt     # prompt sent to agent
        meta.txt       # run metadata (incl. test_seconds, reasoning, duration_seconds)
```

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)
